title: Web Style Guide 前端代码规范
date: 2015-11-09 00:31:45
categories:
- 自用笔记
- 术业专攻
tags:
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
permalink: web-style-guide
note: 1
---

　　在此记录自己已理解并开始遵循的前端代码规范。What How Why

<!-- more -->

## General style rules

### Filename
- Start a file name with a letter and avoid numbers:
```
thousand-and-one-scripts.js
```
> Start a filename with a special sign in order to flag it for a special purpose.

- Lower case in filename:

> Some operating systems support case sensitive file names and we should not mix the cases to minimize confusion and possible sources for human errors.

### Separator
- Use minus (-) sign as separating parts:
```
my-script.js
my-camel-case-name.css
i-love-underscores.html
my-script.js
```
> 1. For readability purpose. Users may mistake the underscores for spaces, as the underlining in the link hides the underscores;
> 1. It's a common separator in canonical URL and URL slugs;

- Use dot's to separate the clear purpose of this additional meta-data in a filename:

```
my-file.min.css
```

### Protocol
- Omit the protocol portion (http:, https:):

``` html
<script src="//cdn.com/foundation.min.js"></script>
background: url(//static.example.com/images/bg.jpg)
```

> 1. Makes the URL relative—prevents mixed content issues;
> 1. Saves file size.

### Text indentation
- Indent by 4 spaces at a time. Hitting the Tab key in your text editor should generate four space characters rather than one tab character:

``` html
<ul>
    <li>Fantastic</li>
    <li>Great</li>
    <li>
        <a href="#">Test</a>
    </li>
</ul>
```

> 1. Make code appearing identical across platforms;
> 1. Developers can make adjustments to their editing environments a single time.

### Comments
- Comment why it was coded this way and comment the thinking behind. Also include links in your comments to open issues, specifications etc.

``` js
var offset = 0;

if(includeLabels) {
  // If the labels are included we need to have a minimum offset of 20 pixels
  // We need to set it explicitly because of the following bug: http://somebrowservendor.com/issue-tracker/ISSUE-1
  offset = 20;
}
```

- Use tools to generates API documentation from comments. [JSDoc](http://usejsdoc.org/) or [YUIDoc](http://yui.github.io/yuidoc/)

### Code linting
-  Writing and following a style guide is a good practice but having an automated process that is enforcing it is even better. 


## HTML style rules

### Document type
- HTML5 (HTML syntax) is preferred for all HTML documents:

``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
```

### Script loading
- Add your script element just before the body close tag and add them with a async attribute:

``` html
<html>
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css">
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- body goes here -->

        <script src="main.js" async></script>
    </body>
</html>
```

> 1. On modern browsers, this will asynchronously load the script and don't wait for CSSOM to complete before loading;
> 1. On older browsers (IE9-), prevent DOM parser blocking, not affecting the user experience too much.


### Type attributes
- Omit type attributes for style sheets and scripts:

``` html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css">
<script src="main.js"></script>
```

> HTML5 implies text/css and text/javascript as defaults;
> This can be safely done even for older browsers.

### ID in Headings
- Give all headings a ID:

``` html
<h3 id="best-practices">Best practices</h3>
```

> 1. IDs for anchors, enter the URL to scroll to the position this element.

### Quotation marks

- Use double quotation marks ("") to quote attributes values:

``` html
<div class="news-article"></div>
```

### 0 values
- Do not use units after 0 values unless they are required:

``` css
padding-bottom: 0;
margin: 0;
```

### Shorthand Properties
- Should be used whenever possible, even in cases where only one value is explicitly set.

``` css
border-top: 0;
font: 100%/1.6 palatino, georgia, serif;
padding: 0 1em 2em;
```

> 1. Useful for code efficiency and understandability.

### Hexadecimal Notation
- Use 3 character hexadecimal notation where possible and lower case hex digits:

``` css
color: #f3a;
color: #d4ddef;
```

## To be continued

## 参考资料
1. ***Web Styleguide - Style guide to harmonize HTML, Javascript and CSS / Sass coding style*** by **Gion Kunz** on <code>2014/10/8</code>: <https://github.com/gionkunz/chartist-js/blob/develop/CODINGSTYLE.md>
1. ***Isobar Front-end Code Standards*** by **Isobar** on <code>2015/8/25</code>: <http://isobar-idev.github.io/code-standards/>
1. ***[译文] Isobar 前端代码规范 及 最佳实践*** by **老码农** on <code>2015/8/25</code>: <http://coderlmn.github.io/code-standards/>